## Elevator Pitch:

Preserve engineering intuition in the age of AI agents.

Cognitive retention layer for AI-assisted engineering. Four seconds per Git event is 2 letter-grades of skill retention saved.

---

## Thesis:

Aggressive adoption of AI assisted development tooling has proven to have negative impacts on software engineering skill development *unless engineers stay "cognitively engaged*... Passive delegation harms skill formation. Active cognitive engagement preserves it.”

---

A data-backed developer tool that will help battle cognitive decline as users adopt more and more heavily AI-driven workflows. This is not a luddite, retaliation against AI but instead tooling should become an essential part of any modern developer's toolchain who wants to stay sharp on coding skills while they continue to hand over coding control to AI more and more, e.g.; Algorithms, Data Structures, Design Principles, Best Practices.

The idea is that whenever a developer or agent "checks in" code (one of these git life cycle events: stage, commit, push) they will be prompted with a little pop quiz pertaining to the code contents they are about to check in. The quiz should be generated by AI, which will analyze and summarize the code changes; breaking down core concepts, fundamentals, and relevant topics surrounding those code contents. (so we will need an agent SDK or API).

As far as the rest of the tech stack is concerned: the primary goal is to make the audience as broad as possible (hence using Git as an entry point), so we are going to hook into Git and FileSystem change events, create an MCP server, and a Presentation Layer with multiple UI adapters. The goal is to be widely adopted and also *not* be obtrusive at all to the developer experience and speed. Everything will be written in Go unless the Presentation Layer/UI Adapters benefit from other languages.

I figure an IDE extension would work well in future phases.

The goal is to keep friction as low as possible since developers are really enjoying the speed boosts of agentic engineering. So, this tool shouldn't take them out of their normal workflow any more than absolutely necessary (e.g. displaying the quiz).